---
layout: post
title: About me
image: Belo_Horizonte.jpg
date: 2021-06-13 11:00:20 +0200
tags:
categories: decoration
future: true
---
<style>
th, td{
text-align: left;
padding: 5px 10px;
border-bottom: 1px solid #e5e5e5;
}
h4{
   color:#494949;
}

tbody > tr:last-child > td {
  border-bottom: 0;
}
</style>

<br>

<p align="justify">
Welcome! My name is Marisa Vasconcelos. I'm a social computing researcher. My research is typically interdisciplinary and encompasses multiple subfields of computer science, particularly those related to data science. Within this domain, I employ a range of techniques, including network analysis, data mining, machine learning, and natural language processing, to tackle various research problems.</p>

<p align="justify">
I am interested in using social data to understand people's behavior, focusing on societal problems such as misinformation dissemination, hate speech, and gender inequality.
Currently, I'm a research scientist at <a href="https://research.ibm.com/labs/brazil/">IBM Research Labs</a>. I am interested in using social data to understand people's behavior, focusing on societal problems such as misinformation dissemination, hate speech, and gender inequality.</p>

<p align="justify">I have served in various program committees of the main web conferences, including WWW, ICWSM, and ASONAM, and as a reviewer in journals such as TOIT, TSC, TOIT and, PLOS One. My recent publications include papers on prestigious venues such as The Web Conference, CHI, and WebScience. I am also involved in initiatives for increasing women's participation in STEM areas such as the co-creation of the WINDS (Women in Data Science) workshop co-located with the Web Conference. </p>

<p align="justify">
I received my Ph.D. in <a href="https://dcc.ufmg.br/">Computer Science</a> at the <a href="https://ufmg.br/">Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais</a> in 2015. I worked under the supervision of Prof. Jussara Almeida and Prof. Virgílio Almeida. Before that, I received my M.A. degree from Boston University, where my research was estimating the location of sensor networks. At that time, I worked under the supervision of Prof. Mark Crovella. Prior that time, I also received an M.Sc. and B.Sc. from Department of Computer Science at the Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais in 2003 and 2000, respectively.</p>

<p align="justify">
I am a recipient of a Fulbright award for my M.A. studies and I am also a recipient of Google Women in Technology (Anita Borg) award.
</p>
