---
layout: post
title: Projects
image: 6.jpg
date: 2021-06-12 11:00:20 +0200
tags:
categories: projects
future: true
---
<style>
th, td{
text-align: left;
padding: 5px 10px;
border-bottom: 1px solid #e5e5e5;
}
h4{
   color:#494949;
}

tbody > tr:last-child > td {
  border-bottom: 0;
}
</style>


<div class="c-article__footer u-clearfix">
<div class="c-article__tag">
<a href="#hiring">#underrepresented</a>&nbsp;<a href="#vaccine">#vaccine_movement</a>&nbsp;<a href="#misinformation">#misinformation</a> <a href="#hate">#hate_speech</a> <a href="#chatbots">#chatbots</a>&nbsp;<a href="#popularity">#popularity_prediction</a>&nbsp;<a href="#privacy">#privacy</a>&nbsp;<a href="#sentiment_analysis">#sentiment_analysis</a>&nbsp;<a href="#capacity">#capacity_planning</a>
&nbsp;<a href="#sensornets">#sensor_networks</a>&nbsp;<a href="#vod">#video_on_demand</a>
</div></div>

<table>

<tr><td>
<a id="indigenous"><b>Ethical NLP Technologies to Support Indigenous Communications </b> (2022-)</a>: At IBM Research Brazil, we focus on analyzing how the current AI Foundational model are robust to Brazilian indigenous languages. My focus is on characterizing the Brazilian indigenous communities on social media and analyze the use of indigenous languages on those platforms. 
</td></tr>

<tr><td>
<a id="hiring"><b>Connecting Under Represented Minorities and Qualified Job Positions </b> (2021)</a>: At IBM Research Brazil, we focus on understanding the first phase of hiring process, how job posts are disseminated among underrepresented groups, in particular Brazilian black communities. Our initial proposal was presented in the RDAI'21 workshop at AAAI. My focus was on characterizing the Brazilian and US Black Tech communities as well as their perceptions about the big tech companies.
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="vaccine"><b>Vaccination Debate on Social Media </b> (2021-present)</a>: In collaboration with UFMG, we have monitored Twitter since December 2020, to understand how people discuss topics related the COVID-19 vaccines.  
</td></tr>

<tr><td> <a id="misinformation"><b>Misinformation Dissemination</b> (2018-present)</a>: Also, in collaboration with UFMG, we have studied the dissemination of misinformation on WhatsApp during Brazilian Presidential elections. From this project, we published 4 papers: WebMedia'18, WWW'19,WebScience'19, and WWW'20.  
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="hate"><b>Hate speech on Social Networks</b> (2018-2019)</a>: We have studied the presence of hate speech content on Twitter during 2014 and 2018 Soccer World Cup editions. We published a paper on WebScience 2019.  
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="chatbots"><b>Conversational Agents Evaluation</b> (2016-2017) </a>: I am doing research concerning methods to evaluate conversational agents (e.g, chatbots) system. Our research focuses on evaluate such systems from the user perspective, by observing the resultant interaction of all chatbot modules. For that, I built a tool chatbot tester tool that simulates users connecting to a chatbot and collecting measures about the interactions. For this project, I have a patent issued and  published related papers in two workshops: Conversational UX Design CHI 2017 Workshop and IHC na prática (Brazilian Conference on HCI)* and in two conferences CHI'19** and CUI'19.
<p> *<i>We won best paper of the workshop. </i>    ** <i>We won an honorable mention for this work.</i></p>
</td></tr>


<tr><td><a id="popularity"><b>Characterization and Popularity Prediction of Micro-Reviews</b> (2011-2015)</a>: For my Ph.D. dissertation, we investigated how users exploit micro-reviews, focusing particularly on Foursquare tips, a more concise type of review whose high degree of informality offers extra difficulties to the design of effective prediction methods. Using collected data from Foursquare, consisting over 13 million of users, we also investigate how tip popularity, given by the number of times the tip received a like from a user, evolves over time and which factors impact this evolution. Then, we explored how these factors can be combined to develop models to predict tip popularity at a given point in time in the future.

We first characterize user interactions through tips, uncovering relevant user behavioral patterns which impact tip popularity. Our analysis revealed four groups of users with different tipping behavior, including one that was consistent with spamming activity. The main results of this work were published in the Web Search and Data Mining Conference (WSDM) in 2012.  To better understanding users interactions, notably the presence of influential users, we also investigate methods to automatically infer a user's influence level on Foursquare. This work was published only in Portuguese.  Moreover, we studied how the popularity of a tip evolves over time by performing an extensive analysis on the popularity dynamics of Foursquare.  The results of that work were published in the Conference of Online Social Networks (COSN'14).  

After performing such characterizations, we were able to identify a rich set of features related to the user, venue and tip content that may impact the tip popularity. We investigate the potential benefits from exploring these features to predict the popularity of a tip will achieve at a future time.  To that end,  we formulated the prediction problem as two different prediction tasks:  predicting the popularity ranking of a set of tips (COSN'14 paper) and predicting the popularity level a particular tip will achieve (results published in the SAC'14 conference).  We also investigate to which extent how early measurements can help to predict the tip future popularity and how robust our prediction models are when performing long-term predictions. These results were published in the Information Sciences journal in 2015.
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="sentiment_analysis"><b>Polarity Detection in Micro-Reviews or Tips</b> (2012-2013)</a> :Tips may directly impact the behavior of future visitors, providing valuable feedback to business owners as well as potential new customers. Sentiment or polarity classification provides useful tools for opinion summarization, which can help both parties to quickly obtain a predominant view of the opinions posted by users at a specific venue. However, the automatic detection of polarity of tips faces challenges due to their short sizes and informal content. In this context, we evaluated the effectiveness of four polarity classification strategies on subsets of tips of the Foursquare dataset. Three of the considered strategies were based on supervised machine learning techniques and the fourth one was an unsupervised lexicon-based approach. We evaluated all methods in two sets of tips: one manually labeled by volunteers and the other automatically labeled by exploring the presence of emoticons. Our evaluation indicated that effective polarity classification can be achieved even if the simpler lexicon-based approach, which does not require costly manual tip labeling, is adopted. We published our results in the SocInfo'13 conference.
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="privacy"><b>Privacy Inference in Location-based Social Networks</b> (2012-2013)</a>: We analyzed how publicly available features shared on Foursquare (tips, likes, and mayorships) can be used as sources of information leakage. The main results were published in LBSN'12. An extension of that work was performed to two other social networks (Google+ and Twitter) was published in Privacy in Social Data (PinSoDa'12) workshop. Our results indicated that we can easily infer the home city of around 78% of the analyzed users within 50 kilometers. We also applied a finer grained inference that revealed the geographic coordinates of the residence of a selected group of users in the Foursquare dataset, achieving approximately up to 60% of accuracy within a radius of six kilometers.
</td></tr>
<!-- Personalized Recommendations Exploring Context Information (2010-2011)

We have proposed a model based on the Random Walk algorithm to recommend media objects (music tracks) exploring the users' profiles and the query context (music genre). We have evaluated our algorithms on a dataset collected from Last.fm that included information about users, the listened tracks, and the tags used. -->

<tr><td><a id="capacity"><b>Capacity Planning Models for Business Intelligence Workloads</b> (2009-2010)</a>: This was a joint project with HP Labs, Palo Alto. Our group was responsible for developing analytical models for capacity planning and performance analysis of Business Intelligence workloads. These workloads are composed by queries, used to support decision making, that process very large data sets and require a significant amount of parallelism. Our challenge was modeling the intra-query pipeline parallelism, with a specific target on its synchronization requirements, using analytical (queuing networks) and simulation models.
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="sensornets"><b>Location Estimation of Mobile Sensors using Contact Traces</b> (2006-2008)</a>: For my master's thesis (M.Sc.), we proposed a model for estimating the location of sensors in wireless networks using contact traces. At that time, the state-of-art framework to determine a node or event location was limited to static nodes. We then expanded that framework to the mobile scenario, including other constraints in the model.
</td></tr>

<tr><td><a id="vod"><b>Analysis of Streaming Media Distribution in Peer-to-Peer Architectures</b> (2001-2003)</a>: In that research, we performed an experimental quantitative analysis for comparing a peer-to-peer (P2P) approach against the traditional client/server approach for distributing live streaming media. We built an experimental testbed, in a controlled environment, to quantify the resource consumption and, thus, the scalability of the two architectures. The key component built for that testbed was an application called servent, which has also the capability of forwarding packets to other clients in the P2P network and was built to generate requests to the server. We also used simple analytical formulas to evaluate the scalability of our servent application. The results of that work were published in the Latin American Web Congress (LA-WEB 2003).
</td></tr>
</table>
